Editorial review (#80)
iov-one/docs: docs/weave/weave-api-spec/02-transaction.md

---
id: weave-transaction-spec
title: Weave Transactions
sidebar_label: Weave Transactions
---

_Weave/BNS_ uses protobuf for handling communications.

> For the beginning, check out the *proto* files and have an idea what are they and how they look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good starting point would be to check out the *proto* files, to become familiar with what they are and how they look.
```

## Protocol buffers

> Let's start with explaining what is protobuf and how to use them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with explaining what protobufs are and how to use them:
```

> Protocol Buffers (a.k.a., protobuf) are Google's language-neutral, platform-neutral, extensible mechanism for serializing structured data.

This line is from [protobuf github repo](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf)

> In a nutshell, protobuf is an effective and easy to use serialization format. To use it define protoc definitions(*.proto*) and then compile them to the desired language which protocol buffers [supports](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/tutorials). After these steps, high tech comms is ready to be used in your software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, protobuf is an effective and easy-to-use serialization format. To use it define protoc definitions(*.proto*) and then compile them to the desired language which protocol buffers [supports](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/tutorials). After these steps, high tech comms is ready to be used in your software.
```

### Weave proto definitions

> _Weave_ protobuf definitions are kept under [weave/spec/proto](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/tree/master/spec/proto) for easy access and usage. Dive in _weave/spec/proto_ and have a vague idea of how *weave codec* files are defined and structured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Weave_ protobuf definitions are kept under [weave/spec/proto](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/tree/master/spec/proto) for easy access and usage. Dive in to _weave/spec/proto_ to get some idea of how *weave codec* files are defined and structured.
```

## Weave/Tx (Transactions)

Lets start explaining [tx codec](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/blob/v0.20.0/spec/proto/cmd/bnsd/app/codec.proto).

> All the required _proto_ files for connecting to `BNS` or any `weave` based blockchain is using this `tx codec`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the required _proto_ files for connecting to `BNS` or any `weave`-based blockchain is using this `tx codec`.
```

On the first line of the `codec.proto`

```proto
syntax = "proto3";
```

> This line indicates protobuf file uses `proto3` as language syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This line indicates the protobuf file uses `proto3` as language syntax
```

> Next is the package this codec belongs to is defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we define the package to which this codec belongs
```

```proto
package bnsd;
```

> Every codec message that will be used to interacting with `bnsd` is boiled down to this codec file via *imports*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every codec message that will be used to interact with `bnsd` is boiled down to this codec file via *imports*
```

    username.RegisterTokenMsg username_register_token_msg = 61;
    username.TransferTokenMsg username_transfer_token_msg = 62;
    username.ChangeTokenTargetsMsg username_change_token_targets_msg = 63;
    distribution.CreateMsg distribution_create_msg = 66;
    distribution.DistributeMsg distribution_msg = 67;
    distribution.ResetMsg distribution_reset_msg = 68;
    migration.UpgradeSchemaMsg migration_upgrade_schema_msg = 69;
    aswap.CreateMsg aswap_create_msg = 70;
    aswap.ReleaseMsg aswap_release_msg = 71;
    aswap.ReturnSwapMsg aswap_return_msg = 72;
    gov.CreateProposalMsg gov_create_proposal_msg = 73;
    gov.DeleteProposalMsg gov_delete_proposal_msg = 74;
    gov.VoteMsg gov_vote_msg = 75;
    gov.TallyMsg gov_tally_msg = 76;
    gov.UpdateElectorateMsg gov_update_electorate_msg = 77;
    gov.UpdateElectionRuleMsg gov_update_election_rule_msg = 78;
    // 79 is reserved (see ProposalOptions: TextResolutionMsg)

  }
}
```

`oneof sum` in the _tx message_ means, one of the messages will be sent to *bnsd*. *reference:* [developers.google.com/protocol-buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#oneof)

## Communicating with Weave/bnsd

> To have the required tools to communicate and send transactions to _weave/bnsd_, follow these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import the required tools to communicate and send transactions to _weave/bnsd_, follow these steps.
```

> ### 1 - Import _bnsd_ protobuf definitios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1 - Import _bnsd_ protobuf definitions
```

> - Copy whole [weave/spec/proto/](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/tree/master/spec/proto) into the repo, as the imports should refer to local files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy the entire [weave/spec/proto/](https://github.com/iov-one/weave/tree/master/spec/proto) into the repo, as the imports should refer to local files.
```

> ### 2 - Install your preferred language-specific protoc plugin

Reviewer: `Protoc?`

Author: Protoc is proto compiler which compiles `.proto` files to a supported language.

> We recommend using [uber/prototool](https://github.com/uber/prototool) or better [IOV/prototool-docker](https://github.com/iov-one/prototool-docker). Import _prototool-docker_ directly from [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/iov1/prototool)

- Create _prototool.yaml_ under root path. 
- reference: [weave-starter-kit](https://github.com/iov-one/weave-starter-kit/blob/master/prototool.yaml) 

> - Import prefered languages plugin under _plugins_ with _plugin options_ such as compilation output. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import preferred languages plugin under _plugins_ with _plugin options_, such as compilation output. 
```

- reference: [weave-starter-kit](https://github.com/iov-one/weave-starter-kit/blob/master/prototool.yaml#L22...L25)

### 3 - Import _app/codec.proto_

- Insert _app/codec.proto_ files path under `includes` in prototool.yaml
- reference: [weave-starter-kit](https://github.com/iov-one/weave-starter-kit/blob/master/prototool.yaml#L20)

### 4 - Compile _.proto_ definitions

- If _IOV/prototool_ used, run `docker run --rm --user=$(shell id -u):$(shell id -g) -v $(shell pwd):/work iov1/prototool:v0.2.2 prototool generate`
- Or instead of messing around with long protoc build scripts, include and parameterize this script in a build tool or script such as [weave-starter-kit/Makefile](https://github.com/iov-one/weave-starter-kit/blob/master/Makefile)

### 5 - Import compiled files in your project

> - After all these steps, now _weave/bnsd_ compiled protobuf files are ready. Import and make your dreams come true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After all these steps, now the _weave/bnsd_ compiled protobuf files are ready. Import, and make your dreams come true.
```
